now the men of ephraim said to him why
have you done this task by not calling
us when you went to fight with the
Midianites and they reprimanded him
sharply so he said to them what have I
done now in comparison with you he's not
the gleaning of The Grapes of Ephraim
better than the vintage of a by either
God has delivered into your hands the
princess of Midian Oh read and see em
and what was I able to do in comparison
with you then their anger toward him
subsided when he said that when Gideon
came to the Jordan he and the three
hundred men who were with him crossed
over
exhausted but still in pursuit then he
said to the man of Sokka
please give loaves of bread to the
people who follow me for they are
exhausted and I am pursuing zebah and
zalmunna
kings of Midian and the leaders of
Sukkoth said are the hands of zebah and
zalmunna now in your hand that we should
give bread to your army for this cause
when the Lord has delivered zebah and
zalmunna into my hand then I will tear
your flesh with the thorns of the
wilderness and with Briers then he went
up from there to be nuovo and spoke to
them in the same way and the men of
Penuel
answered him as the men of Sukkoth had
answered so he also spoke to the man of
Penuel
when I come back in peace I will tear
down this tower now zebah and zalmunna
were at kako and their armies with them
about fifteen thousand all who were left
of all the army of the people of the
East for one hundred and twenty thousand
men who drew the sword had formed
then Gideon went up by the road of those
who dwell in tents on the east of Noba
and jug Baja and he attacked the army
while the camp felt secure when Siva and
Salman ah fled he pursued them and he
took the two kings of Midian zebah and
zalmunna and routed the whole army then
Gideon the son of joash returned from
battle from the ascent of hereis and he
caught a young man of the men of Sukkoth
and interrogated him and he wrote down
for him the leaders of Sukkoth and its
elders seventy-seven men then he came to
the man of sakkath and said fear our
zebah and zalmunna about whom you
ridiculed me saying are the hands of
zebah and zalmunna now in your hand that
we should give bread to your weary men
and he took the elders of the city and
thorns of the wilderness and briars and
with them he taught the men of Sukkoth
then he tore down the Tower of the
noodle and killed the man of the city
and he said to zebah and zalmunna what
kind of men were they whom you killed at
Tibor as you are so were they each one
resembled the son of a king they were my
brothers the sons of my mother as the
Lord lives if you had let them live I
would not kill you
and he said to Chifa his first form rise
kill them but the youth would not draw
his sword for he was afraid because he
was still a youth so zebah and zalmunna
said rise yourself and kill us her as a
man is so is his strength so Gideon
arose and killed zebah and zalmunna and
took the Crescent ornaments that were on
their camels nails
then the man of Israel said to Gideon
rule over us both you and your son and
your grandson also for you have
delivered us from the hand of Midian I
will not rule over you nor show my son
rule over you the Lord shall rule over
you I would like to make a request of
you that each of you would give me the
earrings from his plunder for they had
golden earrings because they were
Ishmaelites so they answered we will
gladly give them and they spread out a
garland and each man threw into it the
earrings from his plunder now the weight
of the gold earrings that he requested
was one thousand seven hundred shekels
of gold beside the Crescent ornaments
pendants and purple robes which were on
the kings of Midian and besides the
chains that were around their camels
necks then Gideon made it into an effete
and set it up in his City Alfre and all
Israel played the harlot with it there
it became a snare to Gideon and to his
house
thus midian was subdued before the
children of Israel so that they lifted
their heads no more and the country was
quiet for 40 years in the days of Gideon
then cherub Bale the son of joash went
and dwelt in his own house Gideon had 70
sons who were his own offspring for he
had many wives and his concubine who was
in Shechem also bore him a son whose
name he called abemolik now Gideon the
son of joash died at a good old age and
was buried in the tomb of Jewish his
father in Afra of the a baes rites so it
was as soon as Gideon was dead that the
children of Israel again played the
harlot with the bales and made bail bier
if their God thus the children of Israel
did not remember the Lord their God who
had delivered them from the hands of all
their enemies on every side nor did they
show kindness to the house of Jeroboam
Gideon in accordance with the good he
had done for Israel
you
[Music]